[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We like to make geologic
features out of our trash,
build mountains out of
it, or, in this case,
fill in an epic wetlands
landscape with trash.
We landfill more
than pretty much
any other developed
country on the planet.
>> At one time, the bay was
lined with approximately 28
landfills, and they've all
been closed except for Redwood
Landfill.
So we're talking about legacy
materials that are in that--
all your toxic paints,
your lead, your mercury.
It's been sitting
here for 60 years,
and it's just rotting and
leaching into this bay.
>> You can see we've already
got some tomatoes in there.
[APPLAUSE]
>> We want a city that's
going to be the first city
in the whole country,
if not in the world,
to go to 100% recycled,
100% no waste.
And there's a reason
why we have someone
named Robert Haley as
the zero-waste manager,
because we're 78% there.
But that's not good enough.
Right, Robert?
>> San Francisco has a
goal of zero waste by 2020.
We're a good part
of the way there,
but we're still landfilling
over 400,000 tons a year.
This is where most of San
Francisco's trash comes.
Nothing like the
smell of garbage, huh?
We've cut our landfilling
in half since the year 2000,
and we're at the lowest level
of landfill on record in San
Francisco that I can find.
Our records go back
to the early '70s,
but the future
would be it's empty.
We want to try to
keep everything out
of the landfill--
no incineration.
Reduce, reuse, recycle,
compost everything.
Can we get all the way to zero?
Well, that remains
to be seen, but we're
going to go as far as we can.
You can just barely see the
tip of the Golden Gate way
off in the distance.
And you can kind of see the
part of the dome of city hall
right here.
We've got the University of San
Francisco, the towers up there.
There's a lot of
commercial buildings.
There's a school.
There's offices.
There's over 800,000 people
living in San Francisco.
There's maybe 50,000
businesses, 350,000 households.
Every person has
to take everything
that they touch consume,
discard and deal
with it properly for us
to achieve zero waste.
It's going to take all of us.
>> So all I'm going to ask is
you don't break the fence line,
and stay inside the cones.
We're advocates of waste
reduction and recycling.
We've been exceeding
goals since they
started establishing goals.
100% of the concrete
will be recycled.
It'll be put into
trucks and driven
to crushing and
recycling facilities,
where it'll most likely
become aggregate base
for new construction.
It's almost like a rebirth.
You take it.
It doesn't go to a grave.
It gets transformed
into something else.
And now it takes on a new
life in another building,
another sidewalk,
another street.
And people walk on
this all day, and they
don't realize just you could be
standing on a building that's
100 years old.
>> This is construction
and demolition debris.
This is the heavy stuff.
Sometimes the building
just gets knocked down.
Sometimes it gets deconstructed.
When you deconstruct, you can
really utilize the material.
This is just construction
demolition material
from this morning
at this facility.
Sometimes it's a
person doing it.
machine doing it.
It kind of takes a bit of both.
So the wood's going in these
two sides, cardboard down there.
Toilet seat, everything
comes through here.
When I was growing up in the
'60s, I grew up in fields.
There were endless hills
of chaparral and places
to play all around our house.
By the time I left San Diego,
I literally saw all of those
get developed with
tract housing.
It kind of got deep in me
that what we were doing
was not really in touch
with the environment.
This is our beautiful city hall.
Maybe we can get in there
and see what's going on.
I really had this sense I
had to do one of two things--
either do something
for people or do
something for the environment.
And I think they're
inextricably linked.
It's not just a job.
What I do is who I am, and
it's really satisfying.
It's just a little cafe,
mostly drinks and some snacks.
Some of the things are packaged
a little better than others.
These kinds of containers, they
can be recycled pretty well.
The stirrers are wood.
Those can be composted.
This kind of stuff is a
little harder to deal with.
It's multi-layer packaging.
Straws, not a big fan
of straws, personally.
We were talking about zero
waste back in the 1990s,
and we actually
passed resolutions
in San Francisco setting a
goal of 75% landfill reduction
by 2010 and zero waste by 2020.
We can recycle or compost
pretty much everything here.
That was around 2001, 2002.
So we took basically what
was a philosophy and ideal
and made it into an actual
city policy end goal.
>> If you can't make it, go up.
We got a whole
bunch of keys here,
and you got to know which one
goes where and what day they're
supposed to pick up.
Because if you forget,
they're not too happy.
Nobody's happy when you
got to leave their garbage.
[INAUDIBLE]
They got a shoot here so
all the apartment buildings,
they can throw their garbage
in one area, and it goes down.
See? someone wrote on here--
Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
That's when they have service.
Let it heavy on me.
Just let it go on me.
OK.
Make my bed for the night.
There she goes.
They can dump it back in here.
Pick it up.
You're like backdoor
Santa Claus here.
>> When you put material
in your black trash bin,
it goes straight
to the landfill.
We're not sorting those
containers at this point.
So what you do at
the street level
really makes a difference.
We created a very convenient
simple program, three streams--
recycling,
composting, and trash.
We've got recycling in
virtually every building in San
Francisco.
Virtually every residential
building, apartment building,
virtually every business,
every institution
has recycling in place.
We passed mandatory
recycling and composting
which says you have to have
recycling and composting.
But it's really
been about working
with the people who believe
in it, and care about it,
and can facilitate it.
It's actually a split truck.
So on one side is the recycling.
You see it says recycling.
And one side is the trash.
It says garbage there.
And so each of these
doors open separately
at the right place
at the facility.
This is coming from basically
all the bins in San Francisco
out on the street.
He's loading this
material into the hopper
so that it can go up the
conveyors onto the sorting
line.
And there's something in here
that shouldn't be in there.
The purpose of this facility
is to pull the wrong things out
and separate the right
things into categories
that can be sold to
places that are going
to make it into new products.
For every ton you see
here, by recycling it
we can save maybe 70 tons of all
the logging slash, the mining
tailings, all the
waste that comes
from producing oil and energy.
These are resources.
So this is kind of
the end of the line.
It's where they're trying to get
some of the last little bits--
the broken glass, the small
lids, things like that.
This rotating belt
magnet is pulling metal
off this conveyor.
The items going
into this bin right
here are like small metal lids.
This is just from this morning.
It just keeps coming in.
You got to get it out
of here every day.
You can't let it pile up.
Some of this is white office
paper, or office pack.
Most of our paper goes to
Asia, especially China.
That's where most of the
paper consumption is.
And by consumption, I mean
they're making products
and exporting products to us.
You can also see some
beautiful bales of aluminum.
Now, these are actually
worth some money.
>> There's green, brown,
plastic, all colors, and cans,
all colors.
>> Recycling is a 24-hour thing.
It's not just a whole bunch of
people pushing shopping carts
and digging through trash.
It's really a collection
and money-type business
for everybody.
All day and all night,
every recyclable container
is being processed.
>> This place has been
here since the 1970s.
It's been in this particular
location 34 years.
It's because of efforts
of people like this
that we have a Department
of Environment,
that we have the ability
to negotiate these issues
on a political level at all.
Recycling centers contribute
to the overall zero-waste
initiative, and there's no
way we'll achieve zero waste
without recycling centers.
>> We're going to
be 100% pretty soon.
It's inevitable that there'll
be outlets to recycle everything
that we use.
>> This is buyback center
glass, very high quality,
easy to recycle, easy
to process for us.
It's the kind of glass
that works really
well for making new containers.
I see money in this pile.
Glass works for recycling.
Its cradle to cradle.
You can take the
same wine bottle,
make it over and
over and over again.
It gets consumed locally,
whether in San Francisco
or Oakland.
It's recycled locally.
And they make new
bottles in Oakland.
So it's just a kind of
a closed-loop system.
>> I've heard that some of the
glass in the Bay Area could
even have glass from as
far back as the gold rush,
theoretically.
>> Yeah, it's
certainly possible.
This is processed material.
This is ready to go
to make new bottles.
So this is green.
If you do it the right way,
it never becomes garbage.
>> From sand, and back to sand.
Plastic bags, urban tumbleweeds.
You use things like financial
incentives to encourage people.
And when you have
to, you pass laws
that just say this is
what you have to do.
But short of that,
what you want to say
is this is the culture
of San Francisco.
In San Francisco, this
is what people do.
And then people will
tend to naturally follow
that social more.
This is all part of
the education process.
We're looking
exactly at this cart
and what's there leaving
a very targeted feedback.
>> From here, I supposed
to audit these bins at this
resident's house,
educate these guys,
making sure they put the right
things in each of their bins.
>> This is contamination.
Now I need to tag this bin,
let them know that people,
they need to fix that problem.
>> To keep the recycling
and composting clean,
it's important that everybody
put it in the right place
to start with.
That's the most
efficient way to do it.
The trick about paper is
if it's wet or food soiled,
you should compost it.
If it's clean, you
should recycle it.
>> We cut them slack on that--
>> This feels like
a bunch of compost.
Yes, indeed.
>> Yeah, so as you can see,
we have a lot of food scraps
in here.
So I'll leave a
friendly reminder
saying, please
remove food scraps
from landfill to the compost.
Copy to take back to the office.
Copy for my residents.
This is what I pretty
much do every morning.
>> That tag will actually
generate an evening outreach
team.
We'll get a copy of that tag
brought back to the office.
Folks will receive
that, and then they'll
come back and knock on the door
to speak to the resident face
to face.
>> This is good.
>> Door to door throughout
the entire city.
>> Thank you, Marvin.
Little bit messy.
Look, I don't throw it out.
I arrange it and again re-use.
I don't like everything
only buying, buying, buying.
No.
I don't like this.
Yes.
Why not we want to save all?
And this is our responsibility.
This is the responsibility
of human being.
I want to make everybody happy
and make my life good, good,
and better.
Then when-- this is my belief--
when I will die, when
the Last Judgment Day,
I can tell Allah, yes, whatever
you give me, never I misuse it.
This is recycle.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And who's here for the Earth?
[CHEERS, APPLAUSE]
>> Zero waste is a goal.
It's a direction.
And that's the direction
we're taking this event.
We're not actually going to get
zero trash, zero landfill waste
today, but we're hoping to get
over 90% diversion at least.
>> Where do cardboard cups go?
Cups.
>> Cardboard cups in compost.
>> These we can recycle.
>> That can be recycled?
>> This one can
in San Francisco.
>> All right.
>> It gets really confusing when
you have an event and you have
people coming from all over
to one place and then they
don't know what goes where
because it's different from
their own county.
There are just so
many little things.
You're like, where does gum go?
Because out of sight is
not really out of mind,
we come to find out.
>> So we're just doing
some basic sorting here.
>> [INAUDIBLE] out?
>> No.
So that all goes in compost.
And then--
>> Those are compostable.
>> They are.
>> Chopsticks made
from a tree-- compost.
Soy sauce packet goes into
the landfill for hundreds,
thousands of years.
You learn to face your
fears after a few diapers
that spill open.
>> Yeah.
Get some juice in your face.
It's just kind of like OK.
>> Your threshold for what you
find gross definitely changes
a lot when you face
this kind of thing.
It's really just about being
responsible for your resource
consumption.
And once you kind of lead
the way for other people
and they recognize, oh,
this isn't that bad,
they start to do it too.
>> I think it also helps
when you don't really see it
as trash but you see
it as actual resources.
>> Composting is
really critical.
It's where recycling
was 20 years ago.
It's where we have to move
now, especially with food
scraps and soiled paper, other
kinds of composed tables.
>> This restaurant
is 93 years old.
See the arch?
They are 92 years old.
>> This restaurant, the compost
and recycle percentage is
almost 90%.
The boss and the
management are really
into environmental
kinds of issues.
>> This is blue for
the can and bottle.
>> When the boss cares,
the staff will care.
They have signage
all over the place,
and everybody knows what
they're supposed to--
>> And blue goes this.
>> --and what they're
supposed to put in each can.
It helps.
>> So this is what's
in the green bins.
There's some things we don't
want, like the aluminum can,
the juice box.
But I'm seeing mostly food,
yard trimmings, soiled paper,
compostable plastics.
These green ones are
all compostable bags,
so we're seeing
people using a lot
of compostable plastic
bags, compostable plastic,
compostable plastic.
That is not a compostable bag.
Good material.
But once again, it's
trapped by a plastic bag.
This is like 99% compostable.
it may not look that
great right now.
But by the time it's processed,
it will look like black dirt.
>> Compost is so ironic.
It's just full of mystery.
It's dark.
It's extremely valuable.
It's loaded with life, even
though you can't see it.
This is magic.
>> We're a very dense city, and
we don't have places here to do
the actual composting.
So we have to export
our compostables.
Fortunately, we're surrounded
by farms and vineyards
not too far away.
So we send the material out
to composting facilities
on the perimeter
of San Francisco.
It gets made into very
high-quality organic compost.
And then it goes back to
the farms and vineyards
and comes back as food
and wine to the cities.
So we've created, essentially,
a closed composting loop.
>> Soils become hardened if you
don't feed them enough organic
matter.
Soils become unhealthy.
And so we need,
literally need, compost
as part of our whole
cultural practice
to keep soils in the
kind of condition
where we can produce
healthy food.
I became interested in health.
And I felt like at one point
I couldn't-- right or wrong--
I felt like I
couldn't find anything
in a store that
was healthy to eat.
So I started to
raise my own food.
And within a year, I realized,
well, I think I'm a farmer.
And so I became involved
in farming for health
and then found out that
I like compost more
than I like farming, actually.
And so I work as a consultant.
>> I like the tools of farming.
I like turning the Earth.
I like what it smells like and
that it's an ongoing creation
all the time.
That's what I love
about farming.
>> So what happens here that is
very beautiful and interesting
is we take a piece
of material, food,
and then we turn it into this.
How does that happen?
This is the red wiggler,
if you will-- earthworm.
Without these guys, we
can't get that job done.
The earthworm's taking
in this material that
has protein-rich bacteria
on it, consumes those.
And what passes out is a manure.
It's like having cows, or pigs,
or chickens manuring your soil.
In fact, the soil is a
product of a microbe's gut.
All of this dark material
that we're looking at,
believe it or not, has come
through the gut of a microbe
at one time or another.
That's what we want.
So this is the full
cycle, if you ask me,
on why we want this
not in the dump.
But we want it to
come back to us
as farmers so we
can decompose it
into a simple material
called humus that goes back
out into soils that we've
lost during farming operations
over a hundred years.
>> By the cooperation
of the cities,
and the compost companies,
and the farmers,
it's just driven compost
prices down wonderfully,
and we can offer our product
for a little bit less than
otherwise.
So there is a full circle.
>> In nature, there's no waste.
All waste is food
for something else,
and that's the way it should
be in an industrial economy
as well.
>> The water heater
here, a microwave, a fan,
old-style toaster,
Christmas light.
Most people don't know there's
a global dumping crisis
in e-waste.
I didn't know.
I was in the industry, computer
industry, for 20 years.
It's really not the right
way to do it to throw away,
because electronics
contain toxic materials,
such as lead, cadmium,
brominated retardant plastics,
as well as their
precious metals.
When it's not done
property, 80% of this
is going somewhere
to kill somebody.
This is actually the documentary
that changed my life.
I saw a piece of this clip in
the PBS program by Bill Moyers.
And as I say, I didn't
realize that we are
causing so much global dumping.
>> After they have
dismantled the computers,
they burn the useless parts.
Every day, villagers
inhale this dirty air.
>> I'm looking at this, and
this is a pretty shocking story.
It's like, I couldn't
get this out of my mind.
>> But although the drinking
water is no longer drinkable
and the air smells foul, the
populace of Guiyu is still
largely ignorant of the
health impacts of the imported
poisons.
>> The idea is almost like
you saw a person about to die
on the street, and you
walk a few blocks down.
Am I going to just
let it go like that,
or am I going to do
something about it?
So this is an example
of a customer.
We have a lot of
building customers.
We service every single
tenant in the building.
These are our buildings.
That's our building.
Basically, which one is not?
Here's an example of our kiosks.
People are putting this
down, and then our staff
will come and pick it up.
This is the Burlingame hub.
This is where we ship all the
items back from our eco-center,
and this is where
we do the sorting.
We decide what items can be
salvaged for responsible reuse
in the US, what
item can be fixed,
what item needs
to be dismantled,
and what item needs
to be recycled here.
So when an item
comes in, if there's
an item that's reusable, it'll
be put on this conveyor belt.
>> As you can see
with this one here,
it actually doesn't
display anything.
But it power's on, so it's
still worth some money.
>> There's a CD,
CD drive, speakers.
Everything can be
recycled in the world.
It's a matter of how
much of a cost it is.
How much do you have to
process it to recycle it?
21% of items we are able to
fix for responsible reuse,
whether as a whole
unit or as a part.
A cracked iPhone 4 screen.
The other 79%, we
basically take it apart.
There's RAM.
There's mixed copper.
There's CPU boards.
Over here you can
see the aluminum.
The better the sorting, the
cleaner the stream you get,
the higher percentage of
recycling you can get.
>> Now they are going to
be taken to be shredded.
>> This is old shredded
electronics after some
of the base metals have been
recovered by another recycler.
>> Some kind of a sliding
block, and a gear,
and some circuit
boards, and a battery.
>> For so long, we looked
at this as a waste.
But if I'm a miner, this is an
incredibly valuable resource
if you look at this as an ore,
as a raw material ore, which
is exactly how we look at it.
>> This is basically large
mixed rigid plastic from San
Francisco.
For us, the really hard stuff
are the assembled products,
the composite
items, the plastics.
And this is the kind
of facility that
can help us crack that nut.
>> I think plastics are
a really cool material.
We can make cool stuff with it.
You can do many things with it.
It makes our life safer.
It makes our cars lighter,
our planes lighter.
And it makes the
bottles that we drink
many beverages out of
unbreakable and cheaper
to ship.
So there's many
advantages to plastics,
which used to be called the
space age material, right?
Now, well, we're not so
much sure we love it anymore
because we find
it in our oceans.
It's hurting our sea life.
We see it scattered
throughout the environment,
and we're not so sure we like
it as much as we used to.
I came to the same
conclusion 20 years ago.
>> There's literally hundreds of
kinds of plastic when you talk
about the resins, the
colorants, the additives,
the different sub-properties.
You can't just mix
plastics together.
You can't even initially tell
what they are very easily.
>> We have to deal not only with
segregating them by the family,
by the type--
so polyethylene, or
polypropylene, or ABS.
There's hundreds and thousands
of grades of plastics.
>> Right.
>> There's high density.
There's medium density.
There's low density.
There's linear low.
After we've separated the
plastics by type and grade
we then send that to
our extrusion line.
What the extruders do
is they melt the plastic
into one homogeneous material.
That material's then squeezed
out through a die plate
with a bunch of
little holes in it.
And it comes out just
like spaghetti strands.
They get dipped into a water
bath, where they solidify.
After they've been solidified,
we chop them into little pieces
that we call pellets, the
currency of the plastics
industry.
It's exactly the shape and
type of plastic and properties
that you would buy from a virgin
producer of plastics making
plastics from petrochemicals.
So we sell to printer
manufacturers,
and we sell into
very demanding parts.
You can see a
mirror finish here.
In fact, I can maybe show
you the actual molded part,
and you can see what a
shiny surface it has.
This is almost unheard
of in recycled plastics.
This step enables us to
literally close the loop.
>> A question that a
lot of people ask is,
how do I get rid of things?
And I think that's not
really the right question.
It's not good enough
just to sell a product
and have no
responsibility anymore.
They have to be part
of the whole loop.
The first place
would be to design
with durability, reusability,
and recycling in mind.
The right question is, how
do we best utilize resources?
>> We're at the Goodwill
headquarters in San Francisco,
and this is where it all
happens, all the sorting.
So this is where all the
donated stuff comes in.
It's sorted into these
boxes, separated out
into various categories--
housewares, linens, DVDs, CDs,
boxes full of the stuff, books.
One of the biggest categories
that Goodwill gets is textiles,
and it's growing.
>> We get a lot of
old stuff in here,
but sometimes we get a
lot of nice stuff in here.
And I wonder, who's giving
away this nice stuff?
Yeah, I'd like to be
in a position like that
to give away good stuff.
>> The good-quality stuff is
put on the top conveyor belt,
things that can be resold.
And the things that
can't be resold--
maybe they're torn
or they're stained--
go on the bottom conveyor
belt. And the top one
goes into Goodwill's
resale system.
The sad piece of this
is that if this goes on
to the shop floor at Goodwill
and doesn't sell after a month,
then the sheer volume
of stuff coming
through the system
on a day-to-day basis
requires this to be moved
out to the shop floor
to make room for
more stuff coming in.
The stuff on the shop floor
gets taken off the racks,
and it gets put
into these big bins
where people come
and root through it,
and they buy things
for $2 apiece.
>> This has a little
battery in it.
And you push that battery,
and it makes a sounds.
The kids like that, see?
Well, I have oodles of them.
I give maybe about
15 toys away a day.
>> Well, this is
sort of a grab bag.
I just saw what was on the top.
I'm hoping that it's
worthwhile, just
for my own personal
collection but also to resell.
This is Hendrix, but
it's pretty much trash.
>> The clothing and textiles at
this point when it's in a bale
is worth $0.22 a pound, so $0.22
times 1,000 pounds per bale.
But it doesn't stop here.
It could be shipped
overseas to people
that resell items over there.
It could go to a large-scale
recycler that then breaks it
down and builds it
back into recycled yarn
or into insulation for houses
and so on and so forth.
So the bottom line is we should
never ever throw garments out
in the garbage destined for
landfill, because that item can
be rebought by someone else.
It can be brought back
again, and then rebought,
and then rebought,
and then rebought.
And then finally, at the
end of its useful life,
when it's really
threadbare, even then
that could become a
completely new thread
that will be made back
into another garment.
Put simply, we really
should be thinking about,
where does it come from,
and where is it going to?
>> Right now, we're
recycling, composting 80%.
That means we're struggling
with the last 20%.
It's just a complete
product design
flaw to make some of these
products in this way.
Also, there's thousands
and thousands of products.
It would be very hard to
make a law for each product.
So instead, we're looking at the
real problem products-- plastic
bags, Styrofoam containers.
And there should never be
toxic materials in the trash.
Well, I think we
should meet Sushma
because she heads up the
toxics reduction program area.
And Sushma's office is right
here, and there she is.
>> Hi.
>> This is Sushma Bhatia.
She is my equivalent
but for toxics.
>> A lot of what I have to
deal with are toxic products,
products that contain toxic
or hazardous chemicals that we
cannot always recycle or reuse.
We want to try and divert
those toxic chemicals
from the landfill stream also.
>> I was doing a lot
of artificial nails.
And I have a very
bad rash on my body,
but that's most on my face.
My lips are even
swollen, and I have
to get into the emergency
room for a couple of times.
>> Oh my god.
>> Yeah.
It was scary.
>> We have customized programs
that we create for businesses
versus residents
versus city agencies.
Each of these populations use
different kinds of products.
They have different
kinds of needs.
And we offered training classes,
and Heidi was the very first
one to take us up on the offer,
which is why she's our hero.
>> When we buy the nail polish,
we already see the ingredients.
It doesn't contain toxics here.
>> We have a separate campaign
for dry cleaners around dry
cleaning solvent.
>> Looks like you got
a spill on this one.
It's nothing big.
>> Yeah.
>> Over 80% to 85% of dry
cleaners use this really toxic
solvent called
perchloroethylene.
And one of our
goals as a city was
to try and get
these dry cleaners
to use a safer solvent,
a solvent that's
better for their health and
better for the environment.
We discovered that wet
cleaning, which uses essentially
water and soap, is the most
environmentally preferable
solvent.
>> We've had a couple of deaths
in the family that were cancer
related, and we don't really
know if that was a cause
of being exposed to the
dry-cleaning solvents for such
a long time or not or if it's
just a natural occurrence.
But why take that risk
when there's alternatives?
>> Like to do my
dishes, of course.
>> For residents, we are
creating a lot of safe disposal
options because we found
that most residents have tons
of chemicals in their houses,
and they don't know how to get
rid of them.
Look for a product that
says caution and not
something like danger--
>> Oh.
>> --because danger is the
highest level of toxicity
or health impact.
>> Yikes.
>> As a household,
as a resident,
we can generate so many
different kinds of materials
that can be classified
as hazardous waste,
things like cleaning products,
personal-care products,
and then there's medicine.
We've heard from residents
that oftentimes they'll
buy a medicine-- it
could be an Advil
or something for a headache.
And they'll take a pill,
and the rest of the bottle
just sits in their medicine
cabinet until it gets expired.
And then they don't
know what to do with it.
We learned that most
people just want
to drop off their unwanted
medicine at the point of sale.
They simply want to go back to
the pharmacy and drop it off.
There's 24 different sites
all over San Francisco
neighborhoods.
So any resident in
San Francisco now
has the opportunity to get rid
of their medicine properly.
>> Oh, thank you very much.
>> What we've done is
we've installed a safe
medicine-disposal bin, and
residents can easily put
their unwanted
medicine in that bin.
Just in nine months of
running this program,
we've collected about
six tons of medicine.
So imagine that six tons of
medicine that we would not
have collected
would have otherwise
ended up in the waste-water
treatment facility
or in our landfills.
>> I've been in the business
just about five years now.
I was actually in an
environmental services company
prior to that.
And one of the questions that
kept being asked to me over
and over again was,
well, it's really nice
that you can handle all
my hazardous materials.
But the real question
is, is can you handle
my bio-hazardous materials?
I found that there was
a massive need for it.
We've selected this
particular facility
because they're a very
large-scale veterinarian
service.
They literally have all of
the waste streams represented
for bio-hazardous waste.
The white container here
is for pathological waste.
So what you might
find in here are
things that are from
neutering procedures,
those kinds of things.
That should be handled
as pathology waste,
and those will all go
into this waste stream.
This would be
chemotherapeutic waste.
That would be anything
like gowns, gloves, masks
to being anything
else that's used
in the administration of
the chemotherapeutic agents
for their patients,
and in this case
it's the animals that
they're giving this to.
And the red container is for
the bio-hazardous material,
which would be your
sharps, anything
that would be considered
to be potentially
infectious material.
The blue container up here
is for pharmaceutical waste.
I as a driver will come
in and lock this shut.
Once it's locked shut,
this entire container--
unfortunately, with all
that plastic in it--
will end up in an incinerator.
Because it is a chemical first
and a therapeutic agent second,
there's nothing about it
that's actually recyclable.
The only thing you
can do is destroy it.
>> It's almost like we're
pushing our problem somewhere
else.
We're pushing our
problems into the future.
We're pushing our problems
onto other societies.
We're pushing our
problems onto nature.
To me, this is just being
lazy and being sloppy.
People would say I'm
an idealist because I'm
looking for a better
future, a more ideal world.
That's true.
But I'm also very
realistic about what
we can do now to take steps,
even big steps, towards that.
A very simple example is we
need better energy conservation
and renewable energy.
>> We are at a project site
we call UC Davis Biogas Energy
Project, where we test the new
technologies for converting
waste into bioenergy
and fertilizer products.
>> I've been working with
Ruihong Zhang at UC Davis
for some time now, and she's
developed some really good
anaerobic digestion technology.
And it's at the point now where
it's being commercialized.
>> 70% to 80% of this
will go into the biogas.
>> We want to power our
composting trucks with chili
peppers.
San Francisco does
not exist in a vacuum.
We import almost everything.
We export a lot of things.
So we really have to work
with a lot of different people
in a lot of different places in
a lot of different dimensions.
>> This project is actually a
joint project between General
Mills from
Minneapolis, Minnesota,
and the Olam company from
Singapore and from here
in Williams, California.
This project reflects the
need for large volumes
of organic matter to
compost to put out
on thousands of acres of land.
This is tomato pulp from
canning varieties of tomatoes.
These have been harvested
as whole tomatoes.
So now we have this beautifully
moist but not overly wet
seed and skin that I can mix
at about one-third of volume
to rice hulls and almond
processing waste that
will give us a great material
that will help the next crop.
>> It is actually steaming.
>> Compost is this simple,
beautiful process that is
a reflection of us learning.
We're building
compost that increases
the health of our soil.
So this is very exciting
to us because this is going
to be a closed-loop system.
>> We're competing for water.
We're competing for all
the material resources.
We really have to
change the way we do it.
Every single piece
of things we put out,
we have to recycle them.
And going to this concept
of cradle to cradle.
It has to get back to
the cradle to cradle.
>> Recycling is
just the beginning.
It's really about people.
It's about trying to do
more than just survive
and actually be
productive, to actually put
more back into the
world than we're taking.
Ultimately, that's what
zero waste is all about.
>> Make it into soil.
>> There's another one.
>> Dig there.
Dig there.
>> Down, down, down.
>> Go, Tommy.
Go.
>> Why do we water
the compost pile?
>> We found a beetle.
>> Woo-hoo.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We're humans, and we're one
of the most intelligent species
on Earth.
We have opposable thumbs.
And I don't think
there's any way
to make it what it
was before we came,
but there's no reason why
if we all work together
we can't fix it.
>> There's another one.
>> Oh!
>> Here.
If you take your glove
off, so you can feel it,
it's going to feel hot.
>> Whoa.
>> Welcome to San Francisco
International Airport.
>> What is this?
>> This is all reclaimed art.
In other words, it's
stuff from junk,
and these artists
made stuff from junk.
>> It's all reused
stuff, recycled.
You just have to look at
things in a different way.
>> Yeah.
>> But talk about turning
swords into plowshares.
>> I know.
I love it.
>> The artists, they
get a shopping cart,
and then they scavenge.
And there's nothing
in the studio.
It's completely empty.
They have to find all
the materials themselves,
including paint, and glue,
and adhesives-- everything--
themselves.
>> So everything I got to make
all my sculptures came out
of this area, the public
disposal recycling area.
Yeah, it's amazing that
people throw away this stuff.
>> So I see plywood--
>> Uh-huh.
>> --wheels--
>> Yup.
>> --a wooden pillar--
>> Yeah.
>> --more plywood.
>> I'm a sucker for
the large pieces,
so I like really enjoyed the
Hummer made out of Styrofoam.
>> Is there a better strategy
than making mountains out
of trash?
How can we live in a
way that's less trashy?
>> An iPhone 5 should
be able to recycle,
and the material should
be used for an iPhone 10.
>> Leather.
Carpet.
>> And then a piece
of I don't know.
That's probably off of an
old pillow or a carpet.
>> I'm not sure why, but
since I was a little kid,
I had a zero-waste mentality,
turning the lights out behind
my parents, driving them nuts,
picking up trash off the side
of the road.
I used to collect
even bottle caps.
>> We want to change the law.
Don't make the nail
polish contains toxics.
Not only nail polish--
now we even ask for cosmetics.
>> So I guess my choices
are to keep it simple.
Yeah, regular soap.
>> We believe in zero waste, so
you wouldn't want a big trash
can.
We actually really do
use this little thing
as our trash can here.
>> An electric sander
bandsaw, projector,
vacuum cleaner
parts, meat grinder,
motorcycle clutch lever,
garlic press, conduit cover.
>> If you need to do any
composting or recycling,
call me up.